adding CONTRIBUTING.md and CONTRIBUTORS.md (#157)
VulcanClimateModeling/fv3core: README.md

**WARNING** This repo is under active development and relies on code and data that is not publicly available at this point.

## QuickStart

1. Ensure you have docker installed and available for building and running and has access to the VCM cloud

> You should enable running docker as your user rather than as root with sudo. First, create a docker group if it doesn't exist:
> 
> ```shell
> $ sudo groupadd docker
> ```
> 
> Add your user to this group:
> 
> ```shell
> $ sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
> ```
> 
> Logout/restart to ensure these changes take effect.
> 
> Finally, authorize docker to pull from GCP:
> 
> ```shell
> $ gcloud auth configure-docker
> ```

Reviewer: I suggest using links to upstream documentation to keep the document shorter, while also providing full instructions to people who need them.

```suggestion
Be sure to complete any required post-installation instructions (e.g. [for linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)). Also [authorize Docker to pull from gcr](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/advanced-authentication). Your user will need to have read access to the `us.gcr.io/vcm-ml` repository.
```

> 2. To build the image, download the data, and run the tests, your first step should be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  You can build the image, download the data, and run the tests using:
```

```shell
$ make tests
```

> If you want to develop code, you should also install the linting requirements locally
> 
> ```shell
> $ pip install -c constraints.txt -r requirements_lint.txt
> ```

Reviewer: The default suggestion to new users should be to install pre-commit, since it reduces the burden on new users to learn active commands they need to run as part of their development workflow.

```suggestion
If you want to develop code, you should also install the linting requirements and git hooks locally

```shell
$ pip install -c constraints.txt -r requirements_lint.txt
$ pre-commit install
```
```

## Getting started, in more detail

> If you only want the the main fv3core docker image, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to build the main fv3core docker image, run
```

2. Push the tag: `git push upstream --tags`
3. Make a PR to [VCM/gt4py](https://github.com/vulcanclimatemodeling/fv3core) that updates the version in `docker/Makefile` to the new tag.

## License
FV3Core is provided under the terms of the [GPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html) license.

# Development guidelines

## File structure / conventions

> The main functionality of the FV3 dynamical core, which has been ported from the
> Fortran version in the fv3gfs-fortran repo, is defined using GT4py stencils and python
> 'compute' functions in fv3core/stencils. The core is comprised of units of calculations
> defined for regression testing. These were initially generally separated into distinct files in
> fv3core/stencils with corresponding files in tests/translate/translate_<unit>.py
> defining the translation of variables from Fortran to Python. Exceptions exist in cases
> where topical and logical grouping allowed for code reuse. As refactors optimize the
> model, these units may be merged to occupy the same files and even methods/stencils, but
> the units should still be tested separately, unless determined to be redundant.

Reviewer: This newline behavior matches what's done in the rest of the document. Having each sentence on its own line makes change logs easier to read, and avoids needing to move text between lines to change line lengths.

```suggestion
The main functionality of the FV3 dynamical core, which has been ported from the Fortran version in the fv3gfs-fortran repo, is defined using GT4py stencils and python 'compute' functions in fv3core/stencils.
The core is comprised of units of calculations defined for regression testing.
These were initially generally separated into distinct files in fv3core/stencils with corresponding files in tests/translate/translate_<unit>.py defining the translation of variables from Fortran to Python.
Exceptions exist in cases where topical and logical grouping allowed for code reuse.
As refactors optimize the model, these units may be merged to occupy the same files and even methods/stencils, but the units should still be tested separately, unless determined to be redundant.
```

Reviewer: Please merge these. You can add them to a batch to merge them in one commit. Thanks for fixing the rest of the lines below!

> The core has most of its calculations happening in GT4py stencils, but there are still
> several instances of operations happening in Python directly, which will need to be
> replaced with GT4py code for optimal performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core has most of its calculations happening in GT4py stencils, but there are still several instances of operations happening in Python directly, which will need to be replaced with GT4py code for optimal performance.
```

> The 'units' fv_dynamics and fv_subgridz can be called by fv3gfs-wrapper to run the
> FV3core model using Pythong wrapped fortran for code not ported to GT4py at the moment.

Reviewer: Pythong -> python
```suggestion
The 'units' fv_dynamics and fv_subgridz can be called by fv3gfs-wrapper to run the FV3core model using Python wrapped fortran for code not ported to GT4py at the moment.
```

> The namelist and grid are global variables defined in fv3core/_config.py The namelist is
> 'flattened' so that the grouping name of the option is not required to access the data
> (we may want to change this).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The namelist and grid are global variables defined in fv3core/_config.py The namelist is 'flattened' so that the grouping name of the option is not required to access the data (we may want to change this).
```

> The grid variables are mostly 2d variables and are 'global' to the model thread per mpi rank. The
> grid object also contains domain and layout information relevant to the current
> rank being operated on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The grid variables are mostly 2d variables and are 'global' to the model thread per mpi rank. The grid object also contains domain and layout information relevant to the current rank being operated on.
```

Utility functions in `utils/` include:
  - `gt4py_utils.py`:
    - default gt4py and model settings
    - methods for generating gt4py storages

>     - methods for using numpy and cupy arrays in python functions that have not been
>       put into GT4py
>     - methods for handling complex patterns that did not immediately map to gt4py,
>       and will mostly be removed with future refactors (e.g. k_split_run)
>     - some general model math computations (e.g. great_circle_dist), that will
>       eventually be put into gt4py with a future refactor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - methods for using numpy and cupy arrays in python functions that have not been put into GT4py
    - methods for handling complex patterns that did not immediately map to gt4py, and will mostly be removed with future refactors (e.g. k_split_run)
    - some general model math computations (e.g. great_circle_dist), that will eventually be put into gt4py with a future refactor
```

  - `grid.py`:

>     - A Grid class definition that provides information about the grid layout,
>       current tile informationm access to grid variables used globally, and
>       convenience methods related to tile indexing, origins and domains commonly used
>     - A grid is defined for each MPI rank (minimum 6 ranks, 1 for each tile face of
>       the cubed sphere grid represnting the whole Earth)
>     - Also provides functionality for generating a Quantity object (used to interface
>       with the fv3gfs-wrapper, that allows us to run the full model, not just the
>       dynamical core)
>   - `corners`: port of corner calculations, initially direct Python calculations, being
>     replaced with GT4py gtscript functions as the GT4py regions feature is implemented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A Grid class definition that provides information about the grid layout, current tile informationm access to grid variables used globally, and convenience methods related to tile indexing, origins and domains commonly used
    - A grid is defined for each MPI rank (minimum 6 ranks, 1 for each tile face of the cubed sphere grid represnting the whole Earth)
    - Also provides functionality for generating a Quantity object (used to interface with the fv3gfs-wrapper, that allows us to run the full model, not just the dynamical core)
  - `corners`: port of corner calculations, initially direct Python calculations, being replaced with GT4py gtscript functions as the GT4py regions feature is implemented
```

  - `mpi.py`: a wrapper for importing mpi4py when available
  - `global_constants.py`: constants for use throughout the model

>   - `typing.py`: Clean names for common types we use in the model. This is new and
>     hasn't been adopted throughout the model yet, but will eventually be our
>     standard. A shorthand 'sd' has been used in the intial version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `typing.py`: Clean names for common types we use in the model. This is new and hasn't been adopted throughout the model yet, but will eventually be our standard. A shorthand 'sd' has been used in the intial version.
```

> The `tests/` directory currently includes a framework for translating fields serialized (using
> Serialbox from GridTools) from a Fortran run into gt4py storages that can be inputs to
> fv3core unit computations, and compares the results of the ported code to serialized
> data following a unit computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tests/` directory currently includes a framework for translating fields serialized (using Serialbox from GridTools) from a Fortran run into gt4py storages that can be inputs to fv3core unit computations, and compares the results of the ported code to serialized data following a unit computation.
```

> The `docker/` directory provides Dockerfiles for building a repeatable environment in which
> to run the core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `docker/` directory provides Dockerfiles for building a repeatable environment in which to run the core
```

The `external/` directory is for submoduled repos that provide essential functionality

The build system uses Makefiles following the convention of other repos within VulcanClimateModeling.

## Model Interface

> The top level functions fv_dynamics and fv_sugridz can currenty only be run in parallel

Reviewer: Could you please single-line-ify the lines in the rest of the document? If you really don't feel like it, you can leave as-is.
